11:20.
Got a good chunk of time now to start
working on stuff. Um, the plan for today
is to implement Muan. In fact, let's go
uh
go tweet that
Oh yeah, also I did um
so this did not actually uh sync
correctly annoyingly enough, but
we have this
and
yeah, this curve is like
oddly shallow.
Uh here, let me see.
This thing is so [ __ ]
We'll try wannabe again. I think if it's
gotten better, but it's just so [ __ ]
This used to be better.
I literally can't [ __ ] hit enter on
this.
Yeah. So, this was the one that drops
off like immediately.
Uh, okay. So, yeah, this is this was the
previous best run.
It's kind of weird how this has
this same shape to it.
I can't think of any reason it would be
like this, but whatever.
We will have to run more experiments, I
suppose.
It's also interesting to me that this
learns quickly as well. H
uh to be fair, I think this is Yeah,
this is not multiGPU, so it's possible
that it's like some weird thing with
that.
All right, let's start on Muan.
Enough of this. Enough of this. Enough
of this.
right.
Here we go. This is what we're doing
today. We're doing uh this port
Keller's implementation most likely. We
need a few other resources available
here. We need
PyTorch is muon.
Oops, wrong browser. I'm not signed into
this one.
Yeah. So right here they define um
they've got Muan and Python.
So this is going on my other monitor
probably.
And then what we'll do on the stream
here.
Now we have to figure out I actually
think we probably need
Mu on options
d serialized torch arg. So we have
learning rate,
Got inspired by a puffer constellation.
writing CFD with CUDA and Ray Lib
plotting. That's awesome.
That is awesome for sure.
Yeah, there's going to have to be like a
hierarchy of approximations.
I also don't know how fast it can be
made with just good code.
What do you use to combine all the
chats? Free stream.
Okay, so we have to figure out these
state variables.
Uh, what this thing actually keeps.
I don't see defaults anywhere. Do you
figure that out?
You know, this is actually probably um
probably something that I can do.
We want the Muan class wherever
is
How many buffers does this thing have?
So, there's Muan momentum buffer.
It looks like there's only a a momentum
buffer, right?
Am I wrong here? There's just one
momentum buffer.
Well, no, Kinvert. It's the fact you
have it backwards. So, it's not let's
make the problem easy so that it can
train in less than four minutes. That's
not what we're trying to do with Puffer.
It's just that we make Puffer so good
that it can solve a lot of typically
easy problems in less than four minutes
on random people's computers. If you
have a problem that's naturally harder,
then it's just going to be naturally
harder.
But I suspect that we can probably even
make that version solved in less than
four minutes.
Like ultimately, the point of Puffer is
not to solve easy problems super fast.
It's to make RL super fast. So easy
problems are solved basically instantly
and we can actually still solve harder
problems relatively efficiently as well.
Looks to me like there's only one
moment, like there's only one buffer.
This doesn't use X average, right? It
just has momentum.
We don't have this AMS Grat, I don't
believe.
Uh okay. And then is this in step?
Yeah, this is in step.
the core of it. Is there anything else
to do here?
Load. There's just some serialization.
This is basically just dumb pattern
matching. down
out
don't need this. Oh, but this is going
to be the actual core logic. So, yeah.
So, here what we do is
step.
Then this calls muon
inside this. And then in this one, it's
just one loop. Cool. Of course, even the
C++ shitty language is better code than
the Python. Not surprising.
Just
Ram.
there.
Very like coding live. I do it every day
pretty much.
I do all my dev live.
It's kind of watch uh watch the field of
reinforcement learning advance and
become fast insane just live.
So, the idea here, uh, this code sucks,
but I'm writing it to torch standard
because I'm thinking I'm going to PR it
to torch.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm
going to have this as our baseline. So,
I can use muon and I can use atom
together as our baseline. And then
probably what's going to happen is that
this thing is going to become a
bottleneck because puffer is so fast. So
then I'm going to have to write a fast
version of this, but at least I will
have like a PR version, right? Like a
tested solid version uh to compare
against. That's the idea.
Welcome Liberty.
I wish I did not hear the stupid
insurance jingle in my head every time
you join stream.
Okay. So this is weight decay done,
right?
do not need this. Do not need this. Do
not need this.
Uh, we do need
I don't know why I shouldn't just be
able to do it like this. Right.
Yeah, I cannot put up with that, man. I
like peace and quiet far too much.
Okay. So now we have to do update.
We have to do this thing.
And then we do
adjusted learning Hey,
I think it's just P do
mole one line is learning rate and then
add the update
This
and this is Muan other than the hard
part which is right here.
Actually, let me just go tell the uh
Oops.
Where is
What the [ __ ] Where's Oh, there it is.
They changed all this [ __ ]
right. What the hell is this?
Mama mia.
That is some math.
Oh yeah. What's this as well? Oh, this
is Keller's implementation, right? So,
we wanted to base this off the torch
implementation.
What's that group? Some random
researcher group. I have a few of them.
I don't know. It was funny. I went to a
random meet up with him in SF and it was
like uh
know basically one guy from every lab.
I met Keller there and Keller was
actually he was the only person to ever
give me a satisfactory answer to the um
like the whole AI safety [ __ ]
question.
That was cool.
No, Kyler. Uh, Jordan, the Muan guy.
It was pretty funny because I basically
told him like, "Hey, I used to think
that your entire line of work on
optimizers was just total [ __ ] and
then Muan actually worked and I was
completely wrong. Good job. It's a major
addition to our library now.
I mean, it's like the most recent
example of me just being absolutely
[ __ ] wrong on something.
Well, let's do this one first. This is
easy.
learning rate and then adjust learning
rate function blah blah blah.
All right. So, whoops.
Can my editor not like
I would like to know how to avoid it
like doing the auto comment [ __ ]
Um
I basically never want my editor to type
characters for me like that. The only
exception I can think of is the auto
indent.
It should be std string or whatever
standard string.
Okay.
Wait, isn't this like weird as hell?
How the [ __ ] is this supposed to work?
Isn't this implementation kind of [ __ ]
original match. Wait, it can be none
original or match this, right?
So, it could be none
or it can be this or it can be this. So,
this is never used.
Oh, so basically it's [ __ ] Gotcha.
Ooh, you see this? This is tricky.
It actually there are two of them.
Okay, so we just do auto adjusted LR.
Uh, which is what? Double. It's probably
just double, right?
where
well this is not it either param.shape
shape.
Oh, and it's got to be LR times this,
right?
Adjusted ratio.
that proposal stuff. I replied to that.
Hang on. Let me get this off screen.
phone number.
Okay,
that's fine. Just replied there.
Yeah. So, the plan is if we get this
done um
uh if we get this done
uh and signed like in the day today,
then I will start working on this
tonight.
And um
yeah,
our normal terms are um like we normally
do half up front, half on delivery. If
that works, that's ideal. Uh if not,
because I know it's like based, how do I
Okay, based on the org information,
there's probably some administration
around that. So, in either way, uh it'll
be before we hand you the deliverables,
right?
Probably after we show demo.
If you can just do normal half on up
half up front, half on delivery, that's
way easier.
you know, we're a bootstrap startup as
well and um we typically don't finance
cash flows.
Other than that, the content of the
stream until then for today is um
porting muon to C++ because Torch did
not add it to their back end.
Mhm.
Yep. So basically billing that way uh it
means that I can never I basically if if
I do it that way I can never owe people
money that I have not been paid if that
makes sense.
Yeah. And then we'll see with this one
whether
uh whether Spencer and I both do it or
whether I just decide to like hammer
this out all weekend or what we do about
it. But it'll be a fair bit of work
either way.
You're asking for some doable but not
exactly trivial things in that timeline.
I probably should update our website
with something about our sim pricing
at some point soon.
But frankly, the expectation is it'll
probably go up a little bit with Puffer
because I mean it's just going to be so
much better like what you can get in
Puffer 4. I mean already some of the
tools that we're using from Puffer 4 on
professional work is just it's so cool
and we already have the plans for puffer
five as well. Like
RL's going to be in a really solid spot
soon.
Newton Schulz. Okay. So, this is the
annoying op that I have to implement,
right?
Yeah. This is the giga annoying
operation.
Uh I will respect their API here
and this is over one. So this is
tensor
zero power Newton Schles
and then this is going to be
tensor grad.
much
couple co-offs.
Yeah, like this. Right.
number must be less than 100 for
computational efficiency. That's such a
weird thing to do, but okay.
What? It does the grad and bloat 16 like
by default?
Really?
That's bizarre.
Well, now I know why heavy ball was such
a pain in the ass.
H.
But wait, it doesn't it doesn't [ __ ]
cast it back.
Huh?
That's them. It's bizarro.
Uh, grad size.
Cool.
Orthograd equals grad.2.
to
a
div
orthograd norm lamp Oops.
Okay. So we take gram matrix.
It's a matt mole orthograd.
So
t
And then we do gram update which is
going to be adm gram matrix gram matrix
gram matrix
see
I'm guessing that's the same API
orthog
and should be basically the same API.
Yeah.
Uh the only thing is a little weird is
beta equals alpha equals
Beta equals alpha. Okay. So I think that
this is fine with the way optionals
work, right? Beta alpha beta. Yeah, this
is fine.
And then we do
Uh we also need to do torch tensor
tensor ortho
brad.
this.
Yeah. Just transpose.
Cool.
So that is in about the same amount of
code as the Python version. E++ 0 power
Newton Schultz.
I have no idea what the math is.
That's not entirely true. I took convex
opt
course I ever failed. Um
I intentionally took the course as a
freshman knowing I was going to fail it,
but I learned some stuff.
I'll tell that fun story real quick.
I'll tell the uh the convex op story
real quick. Let me get some coffee, then
we'll continue. Oh, uh and let me get my
bench set in. Hola. Hey, Henry.
Get my bench press set in as well. Bench
press. I think that's what I'll do
today.
You uh you might have noticed
that I uh I might just be a little bit
of a contrarian for its own bloody sake.
Just a little bit. Right. So,
I got to Stanford at 18, peak blunder
years,
and one of the first things they told me
is, "Oh, well, Stanford students don't
know how to fail. like most of you have
never failed anything so you don't know
how to fail. So I said okay challenge
accepted.
So I decided to take my normal course
load plus two grad classes in uh my
winter's term and
I decided for one of them to just take
the hardest class I could find which was
convex op. The other one was like some
distributed computing thing. I actually
passed that.
But uh yeah, the convex office was just
brutal math. They had no business
whatsoever taking. And I would go there
dutifully at 8 in the morning. I'd bike
through the rain to get there. I'd have,
you know, I don't know, my mug of tea
and some toast that I'd normally get in
the morning just sitting in the front
row. You know, I'd occasionally answer
stuff. I had a good time. And you know,
he I think he even the professor asked
at the start like, "Oh, are there any
undergrads here? Are there any juniors
here? Are there any freshman? Are there
any soph are there any like uh are there
any like sophomores? Any freshman? And
he like looks at me and my one other
friend that I dragged into it like,
"Okay, you guys are nuts. I don't know
what you're doing here, but cool, I
guess."
Uh that course has a 12-hour midterm and
a 24-hour final. And yes, they are
actually written for that amount of
time.
I barely got anything right in that
whole course, but you know, I tried and
I learned some stuff.
So, at the very least, I have some idea
of at least at a high level what is
going on here.
Don't ask me any of the details, though.
24 hours. How does that work? They give
you the final. They say it's due in 24
hours. Come back with it completed.
Don't cheat. And it actually takes you
24 hours to do it.
That's how it works.
Oh yeah, my friend was super mad at me.
He actually passed it as well because he
was um he was a math guy, right?
No, I still know him. He went to my high
school, actually. He's like the one guy
uh the one other guy from my high school
that went to Stanford that year.
Like one time, I think in my freshman
year, I got like way too drunk and he
said, "All right, dude. you got to go
home. Like I called him or whatever.
He's like, "All right, you got to go
home, dude. You're way way too out of
it. Like, I'm going to come get you."
And I said, "No, you're not." And he
said, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, I am." So, I
said, "I bet you I can implement K uh K
nearest neighbor in one line in this
state." He's like, "Bullshit." So, I
gave him a oneline tensor implementation
of K nearest neighbor, and he went, "Oh,
that's actually right. [ __ ] I never
thought of that. All right, I guess
you're good. Have fun.
How did you get into MIT for a PhD?
Uh because I'd basically been doing
research full-time since I got to
undergrad.
Like I did my first publication solo was
sophomore year and then I did a stint at
OpenAI. I met Philip there. Philip uh I
worked with him there for like six
months. He went on to become a professor
at MIT so I followed him there.
Yeah, I basically just been doing
research constantly for a while.
All right, that's enough fun stories for
now. We're going to get Muan done today.
I know there's some parts of undergrad
that were like really cool and some
parts that were just super depressing.
That's basically the full logic of it. I
think we need to do serialization and
debug it.
What are you using Puffer Lib for?
Well, I'm developing Puffer Lib, right?
Hey, Yanick. I'm developing Puffer Lib
right now. So, I mean, we use it for a
few client jobs, like a few different
sims. Um, but mainly I spend the
majority of my time like building the
library, making RL faster, evaluating on
tons of M, working on core algorithms.
So, I'm really doing core tech most of
my time.
And then when companies want custom SIMs
or they want their problem solved using
our tools, then we charge a premium for
that, right?
Yes. So there is no no it is implemented
honor. So muon was a major component of
puffer 3 but it was heavy ball muon. It
wasn't our own implementation of it,
right? It's just something we use. And
then for Puffer 4, I was trying to move
it to the PyTorch Muon because PyTorch
recently added Muon, but they didn't add
it to their C++ back end. So now I'm
adding Muan to their C++ back end for
them.
And then we're going to have it in C++
as well.
Muan is really good. Like Muan is
actually really good.
Very confident in that.
doing RL forever since undergrad uh 2017
2018 something like that
I worked on the same project as well the
whole time through there through my
whole PhD was building neural MMO really
like I've spent the last near decade
just trying to make RL work in more
complex and interesting settings and
then building tools to try to make that
faster and easier.
That's kind of my whole gig.
low resource.
Yeah, you do end up having to use Adam
with it as well, Henry, for um 1D
params.
Yeah, but Muan is very good. It's not as
good for small batch training. Um, but
for large batch training, it's like no
overhead and it's just better
is really good.
It's preconditioning. But no, I don't
know the details of Adam versus Muan. Uh
the intuition that they always draw you
is it's like you normalize the scale of
all your gradient direction so that if
you have a like narrow long bowl
surface, you don't bounce around back
and forth on the narrow axis. That
probably is total [ __ ] because
that's not like that intuition is not
particularly useful often times in high
dim spaces. But I mean the actual truth
of it is you need to understand the math
and I don't understand the math well
enough. I'm not an optimizer researcher,
right? I'm really just using this and
I'm doing better empirical validation of
this than anyone else is in RL. But no,
I do not understand the details of
precisely why the [ __ ] this thing works.
Well, I like to understand most of the
things in here, but like it's such
there's so many deep rabbit holes on
things to understand. Like this is one
that for now I'm fine kind of just
using.
Yeah, I'm pretty much fine just using
this as is
uh just for the time being at least.
weight decay is on by default.
Kind of weird.
Yeah. Let's see how this does. So, we
have um Oh, and let me go check one
email as well.
Oh, they have not replied. Cool.
is get this to compile and get this to
optimize.
Kind of cool though that it doesn't take
that much work. Takes an hour when I'm
fresh to get a draft of Muon.
let me go check something? I actually
don't understand how namespaces work for
Mulan option says no member apps. That
is [ __ ] Yes, it does.
Oh, you didn't do epsilon here, dummy.
Did not do epsilon.
Learning rate, weight, decay, momentum,
nest, poets, apps, steps.
Wait,
did this guy not get
This guy didn't get it.
This guy just unironically didn't get
it. That's funny. I tried using Sarah
Brust. They hope it's open source models
because it's fast. Honory. So the thing
with Sarah breast, this is their thing.
They're not a models company.
They make this. Yeah, that's one chip
and then they serve models on this big
chip. So it serves the models really,
really fast. But I don't have to sit
here waiting while I wait for the
[ __ ] model, right? It can't be wait
for the model, wait for the code to
compile, attempt to try a thing, you
know, get it wrong, wait for the model,
wait for the code to compile. You're
just not doing anything, you know, you
may as well go do something else if
that's your dev loop.
Oh,
undefined symbu.
I probably need to include the source,
right?
Ah,
they see
We are porting muon
to C++.
type.
What the
are you [ __ ] me? You can't get tpple
size.
So disgusting, man.
Let me see how Torch did it with um Oh,
actually, you don't need to do this.
Duh. Cuz it's C++. It's already
guaranteed to be this type. Cool. We can
just get this this check.
It should be moo minus minus. Honestly,
the C++ is awful.
This is like a terrible language. You
should feel bad for liking it.
This is Keller's implementation. Where's
the pietorch implementation?
Yeah, this is fine.
This is totally fine.
getting somewhere.
Momentum
buff equals
where's momentum? Oh, momentum is the
arg, right?
Okay. And now we also need momentum,
right?
Is this a bull?
That's a bull. I'm dumb.
And let's go fix uh nest. This is all
right.
1440p 27 in
seems to be optimal for me.
Honestly, the one feature that I uh I
actually miss from Python in my
low-level dev probably more than
anything is just having named parameters
and defaults.
Especially in strrus like ah can I
please have can I please have defaults
for a strct would be very nice
so easy to compile like to do that as
well isn't it
audio is gone
I think it's still going through on my
end anybody Okay.
Yes. No. Yes. No.
Audio is good on YouTube.
Thank you.
It's funny how uh all the lurkers come
out when uh you just do an audio check
like that.
I know nothing about RL or CPP, but I
feel like I'm learning infinite. This is
amazing. Well, C++ is awful. Like,
utterly awful. I hate that I'm doing
this. I'd way, way, way rather be
writing C. Uh, I could do this exact
same thing in C and it would be simpler
and shorter.
But, uh, if you are new around here, I
do have some formal educational content
as well. Oh, hey, it's 23K. Thank you
all. Uh, these two articles on X are
like my two highest rated pieces of
content. I put a lot of effort into
them. They contain my best advice in
programming in ML and my best advice for
RL all in one spot.
And it links you to a ton of other
resources as well, like easier to digest
resources as well.
Mhm.
One and soulless.
It's always so weird when it's like use
C++ split to demangle and then it just
like guesses the outcome of this
operation and says oh [ __ ]
Can I just like comment these
serialization methods for now?
I just do this.
Oops.
Do you feel like No, that's definitely
not true.
I'm not doing what I'm doing because I
think LMs have plateaued and aren't
going to get any better. Like that's
just stupid. Um, I'm doing this because
it's like a fundamentally different mode
of progress and I can kick ass on
problems like on my home servers here
that LM are just never going to be able
to
Never a big word. Okay. So if I give a
language model a fiddly optimization
problem where intuition from language
doesn't help you at all and humans can't
remotely solve the optimization problem
at all either. What does having a whole
bunch of parameters trained on text get
you? like the only way it will solve the
problem is by writing the code that I'm
writing now. It's not going to just like
guess the outcome of something that
needs to be simulated, right? I mean,
you can even prove this in some cases
like you can just construct
computationally irreducible problems.
It's usually not fully the case that
it's that, but like it's still you're
not guessing the outcome.
Well,
never done this before.
I'm going to just commit this just in
case real quick.
there.
Cool. So, now I don't have to worry
about losing stuff.
FPR. We are attempting to make a PR to
PyTorch.
Well, the idea is that we're going to
just PR it, right?
and then we can just have it in a
nightly.
Well, what's puffer lib?
Buffer Lib is open source my Yeah.
This is the original Python.
That was funny.
The PR is for Muan.
Holy hell. Is it literally going to take
this long? No, it'll cash, right? They
got like a proper make proper setup for
this.
Uh,
Ah, this being indexed. So, I got to go
to here.
They only implemented it in Python,
Jess. They didn't bother to do it in uh
in C++.
No cuda. Oh, barely any cuda. It's kind
of sad.
Yeah, this is just not true. Slow as
[ __ ]
Um,
well, this is going to still build for a
while. So, I'm going to go use the
restroom and do a couple sets, I guess,
and then we will continue the
contributions.
Yo, Pietorch, you want to compile the
century?
not name a type.
Should name a freaking type.
I mean, we can do um Oh, is this thing
just going to start building finally on
the left? That'd be nice.
Yeah, it's like you really can't um
you kind of just have to wait for torch
and test it from there. Unfortunately,
I mean, we'll keep this here for now,
but like
Well, we'll just have to test it from
there.
I think you're just plotting a step
learning rate schedule.
Nice try though.
Yeah, I know that's brain dead.
Oh yeah, Google, we have such good
engineers.
Oh,
come on. We're almost done compiling
this, right, Torch? Right. I really just
want to have Muan done today. That's
kind of all I want to have done.
We're going to compile the last eighth
of this fast or we're going to take
forever.
Oh, hello Kyouong.
How nice of you to drop by.
231N.
Yeah, go look at whatever the latest
lectures are by either uh Carpathy or by
Justin on YouTube.
I just wrong thing. Fix my website
apparently.
voice.
Oh, there we are.
Hello.
This thing on.
Uh, you are muted.
Oh, two PRs.
Holy moly.
Okay, you've been busy.
Hi.
>> Hey. How's it going? Now I hear you.
You're on stream as well. What's up?
>> Yep. I know.
Uh yes, I MPG.
>> Yeah, this is uh awesome, man. Like,
it's great to have some smooth tests and
we have a fair bit of stuff to test out.
As you can see, I've been just grinding
the uh the new low-level back end.
>> Yeah, you need a good like a for
evaluation for sure.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we have neural MMO,
but it's kind of too hard. Like it takes
too long.
>> Yes, it's too hard. Too long.
>> It's a good stretch and like
>> Yeah. But like uh people are like very
they like new to it like so well
>> we're going to have a lot of stuff done
pretty soon I imagine but yeah
>> uh I'm working on as you can see
>> and
>> we can do this while this compiles so
let me see what you've done.
>> All right.
All right. You just moved this around.
You added a min learning rate for
whatever reason. Cool.
>> Uh
>> I mean that was a real issue because
like when I run for like five or six
billion
>> Mhm.
>> like it didn't train for like last 20%
of the time. So
>> but then you have to sweep both of them
annoyingly, right? Like you have to make
sure that it's like min to max or
whatever.
>> Uh like I don't follow. What do you
mean?
>> Let me see. Do you add this to sweeps or
no?
>> Uh, min running rate.
>> Yeah,
>> I I haven't. Yeah.
>> Okay. Cuz that'll break things, right?
Because then it can set min greater than
max.
>> Uh oh. Uh wait, wait, wait. Uh so,
so the the x is little out of sync. But
uh now you are looking at the hyperparam
min max and mean.
>> So if you have min learning rate greater
than max learning rate which can happen
if you like if you add min learning rate
as a variable to the sweep.
>> Mhm.
>> Then you it the sweep can set the min
bigger than the max which will break
stuff. Right.
So I haven't test that but like the it
goes directly to the likeuler error
scheduleuler and I don't know
>> it's just set to zero right now.
>> So it's the same thing.
>> Uh yeah default is zero. Yeah. So
>> I that's like very use it when you you
really need it especially for longer
training but I think like uh under two
or three billions like yeah setting zero
will work fine. I think the way that it
should be set frankly Kyouong would be
we set uh we would set it to be the
number of orders of magnitude or like
factors of two something like that of
the reduction. So it could be like you
know gets swept between
uh
it gets swept between like zero and
three. So a neal learning rate like zero
would be it doesn't do anal three would
be it gets to be a thousand times
smaller than the start and then it'll
never break and then that'll actually
let us sweep the annealing more
effectively over m to see that as well.
That's probably how I do it.
>> Yeah. Like so it as a percentage of the
the input running rate like that's what
you mean right.
all right I just had two different
clients spam me at the same time. Um
>> business is booming. Yeah, it's not. I
mean, it's it's honestly for the
complete lack of effort that I put into
like advertising and trying to grow the
business,
>> it's pretty good.
>> Um, you know, I think it'll get bigger
when I actually focus on it, but for the
most part at the moment, I'm kind of
just like
>> doing as much core dev as I possibly can
and then whoever contacts us.
>> That's a hell of a marketing. Like, you
stream every day. So,
>> yeah. But I'm just streaming my dev. All
right. All the memes are gone. That's
good.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh,
okay. Yeah, this is fine. Setting these
men. That's chill.
Uhhuh.
>> Is is X streaming uh this laggy?
>> Yeah, it is.
>> Is it YouTube?
>> It's faster. It's fastest on Twitch
generally.
>> Twitch. Let me Twitch cuz
>> H
>> let me let me uh switch uh to Twitch
because like that.
>> No worries.
>> Time difference is killing me
>> here. I can also stream it on Discord to
you so you can see what I'm doing.
>> Uh yeah, that will be better. Yeah.
Okay.
>> Actually, I just I can literally just
turn
my camera on
and then you get a live version of the
stream view.
Oh, but it's backwards.
>> Okay. Maybe I do my screen instead.
>> Is it backwards?
>> No, no, no. It looks fine to me.
>> Oh, okay. Huh. For some reason, it shows
backwards on my screen. All right. Um,
uploaded train crashed 1B. Cool.
>> And it looks like very likely we're
going to go back to wand
>> uh pretty soon because they just added
this cool new feature and I think
Neptune is kamicazying their platform.
Uh
okay. But like once like we switch to
constellation then yeah no
>> but constellation doesn't replace um
>> it doesn't replace like the web tracker.
So constellation is for like really
large scale aggregate stuff.
>> Oh I see.
>> It doesn't have like experiment
management features or anything. It's
basically like if you want to automate
20,000 experiments and see all the
results together, then constellation is
good for that. If you want to go like
run 50 experiments and like pick out the
details and like put different groupings
of them and stuff, you'd still use a web
interface.
>> Mhm. So like one annoying thing about 1
DB is that it also sends the dashboard
so that logs get bigger. So
>> it sends the dashboard.
Yeah.
>> Oh, that's so dumb. That's the best
word.
>> I think you just have to make it so it
doesn't send standard out then.
>> Yeah, because then each run ends up with
logs of like 30 megabyte. So,
>> it sends the freaking dashboard. That's
so dumb.
>> So, like its up like disk usage. It's
like
>> how does it even do that, dude? Like
>> I don't know. I don't I print in place.
That's crazy.
>> Yeah. Like when when you look at this
like uh my G20 48 uh 1 DB 1 DB like look
at the files and see the like file size
over there. It's bigger than the bottle.
>> He just is just taking out memes.
>> Yeah.
>> Only include what's this only include?
So that that sweep only like so like at
the later uh sweeps like I didn't like
run sweep for 20 parameters. I just
focused on three or four.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Just to find the parameters that doesn't
crash my like uh six billion like
training steps. So
>> only include only fish.
I gotta merge a couple more puffers into
that and I have a couple open PRs for
it.
>> I saw
Yeah. So like those uh changes relate to
sweep uh the sweep changes are related
to like those uh long training runs. Uh
so uh with that I attached the picture
in the PR that you'll see like a little
bit different but it's really focusing
on finding like running rate
>> or other credit coefficients that
doesn't crash in the wrong runs.
why isn't this just one line? Like this
could just be self dot like self thing.
Oh, okay. Yeah, this could just self
thing. Whatever.
The minor net. Uh,
this is going to put all the sweeps on
uh the same GPU, man.
>> Oh, what do you mean?
>> So, what happens if I run a multiGPU
sweep?
Uh so that that is where the Gaussian
process lives.
>> I don't know actually. So if I if I do
two divisible devices equals two puffer
train like puffer sweep does this break?
>> Test it.
>> Yeah. So if you can test I'll send you
It might reabel it. That might just get
it relabeled. So it might work.
Uh
>> any box
can run it on tiny box or whatever.
But that would just I would want to make
sure that this does work with multi
sweeps cuz what I essentially the thing
I want to do is I want to run a big
multi sweep for the baseline and then
for mining on 2048 like that's what I
want to do ASAP.
>> Yeah.
So, so in that case like uh what I
assume is
like so
there's only one like sweet manager and
it can produce like multiple suggestions
right so
you only need like one instances no
or how does it happen there are multiple
configurations so there is a mode for
which it is one sweep instance for all
the GPUs and then there is a mode for
which it's one sweep instance per GPU.
>> So like uh like I kind of get it why you
did it for the like previous uh like
pyro version but now like each
suggestion takes like one or two
seconds. There is really no need to have
multiple sheet managers.
>> So that wasn't why I did it. Um, the
reason I did it is because there's a
parto sweep mode. So, I create a sweep
for a specific number of time steps. So,
every run is going to be the same number
of time steps. And
>> uh because essentially the thing I want
to do is I want to fill out a
three-dimensional paro curve for
constellation. And it is no longer just
cost in seconds and performance. It is
now cost in seconds, agent steps, and
performance. and I want to explore the
full 3D space of that. And the only way
that I could see to get that to work, I
tested a few things. Maybe you have
better success trying to do like just
native three like three variable
optimization, but the only way I could
make it to work was to just sample six
different timestep budgets and then run
the cost optimal sweep for each budget.
Yeah. And that's a big deal right right
with constellation because what we want
to do with constellation the idea is hey
we have puffer really fast now so can we
just run a massive number of experiments
not like 200 experiments per environment
but thousands of experiments per
environment and can we understand fully
you know what is the least amount of
compute we can spend what is the least
amount of data we can spend and what
does the trade-off curve look like
across compute and data for this
environment
No, constellation. The goal is to draw
patterns. It's to draw patterns through
everything, right? Constellation. And
the the key pattern, the most important
one, I think, in RL is this compute to
data trade-off question
there.
Yeah, let me let me think about it.
>> Yeah, think about that a little. there.
The issue is the issue is like when you
have uh set the CUDA zero
>> then probably that like sweet manager
will leave on
the same GPU for
>> yeah it might have to just be you might
have to set the device to not be CUDA
zero. It might have to be set to the
same CUDA device as the current
experiment. I don't know.
Let me let me see like if is that put
visible then like
>> it might reabel them automatically to be
fair. I don't know.
>> Yeah,
>> but that is the objective of
constellation for reference. It's a
really cool thing if you think about it.
But uh yeah, that's what we want to do.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I
>> What's this logistic regression?
>> Oh, you added a logistic regression for
success. That's funny.
>> Uh yeah. I mean but it only like turn on
for like when down sample is one.
>> I see
>> very specific like use case. Let's see.
Yeah, there like I was really focusing
on like uh looking for stable
hyperparameter that doesn't crash the
run.
Oh yeah, like uh
>> yeah, we have to be a little careful.
>> Guess this makes sense. We have to be a
little careful hard coding stuff like
this because you can always if you're
just doing this on 2048, it's really
easy to fit the fit the sweep code to
your problem rather than like making a
general good thing. Um so we definitely
want to go test this on a bunch of MS to
make sure it's good and stable.
>> Well, break and test tetra worked. So
yeah,
>> uh some good things, a couple good
things to find Kyouung would be can we
get the same like 27 second uh solves or
faster on breakout out of this? So
that's on the 5090. Uh I think 27
seconds is record and then uh can we get
like the 3se secondond pong solves?
>> I haven't tested on pong, but
>> really fast. It should be easy to like
just do a few
>> of those.
>> Okay. I I can like just pick up pong
right now and you'll see the breakout in
the in this PR. Yeah,
>> Pong. You can literally set Pong like a
10-second budget or whatever. It's super
fast. Um, yeah. No, Pong is nice for
that. And actually, one of the things I
want to do is I want to see if we can do
Pong in 1 second on Puffer 4.
>> Yeah. of time we'll take more I guess
>> if we can just solve I but because we're
so fast now we should be able to solve
it in like one big gradient update or
something
cool
work
I got to get you into some lowle dev at
some point But like this is all solid
stuff. I'm seeing like how much cool
stuff you're doing over here. But I
don't know. Maybe I'll let you have fun
playing with the experimental things and
I'll fight the cuda demons.
>> Uh, okay. I'll sidestep from CA demons
for now.
>> It's okay if you're interested in it.
It's really It is really cool stuff. But
yeah, it does I The C++ stuff I'm doing
now is awful. The Cuda stuff is pretty
cool.
>> Ah, okay. I'll take that.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, probably looking for some
opportunity later.
>> That's all right. I'm very happy it
happened. I mean, this experimental
stuff is super helpful. Uh, let's see.
I don't know. I just when I see people
doing good stuff, I try to encourage
people to try some low-level dev because
it was the single biggest mistake I made
during my PhD was not getting into lowle
low levels.
>> Like I start to have fun with uh like C
code, like the environment code now. So
yeah.
>> Well, I mean CUDA is just C that runs on
your GPU.
>> Yeah, that would be awesome.
>> That's all it is.
It's literally C that runs on your GPU.
And it doesn't like if statements, but
it'll run them anyways.
Okay. This So this Can you explain to me
how you're doing max suggestion cost?
cuz I added like this cut off thing into
training where if a run just goes longer
than a specific amount of time, it
immediately is stopped. And I think
you're doing something a little
different, right?
Oh, so
there like I wait is max suggestion cost
in the training there too or no?
>> Well, in my versions it is. I don't know
if you have it.
>> Is it like is it in the 3.0? I know.
>> Uh I don't know. Might be. I know it's
in for 40.
>> I mean like I didn't see any like uh
that training
stopping the
suggestion post. So
So it's it's mere suggestion, right?
Let me see.
So in
here you're correct that it is I think
in four row I did it this way. It
doesn't have to be done this way, but
I'm actually curious on your thoughts
for this.
So, yeah, you see this.
>> Okay.
>> Then like that if
>> Well, you don't have to do it this way.
>> Sweet.
I just want to know like do you have do
you have a way to prevent it from
running like long experiments for a
stupid amount of time?
Yeah, I would probably like try to make
a better version of that.
Right now it just checks uh if training
is none uh nan
>> mhm
>> and it it prevent a lot of like a stupid
computer waste for sure.
>> Yeah. So that's totally fine. I think
like
uh another like a little step up would
be let's say like if uh if the training
has run for like 1 billion steps and the
performance is like less than 0.01 then
you can stop. So
>> yeah you need some way of doing this
automatically across
>> across M's though. Um,
okay. Well, think about that a little
bit cuz right now in 40 I just have it
so that each M can set like a max
experiment cost. Um, probably we should
do something a little smarter like the
asynchronous having type thing where
it's they just kill bad runs early,
right?
>> Yeah,
that's Yeah. So that's an that's an
interesting problem and like that's why
I like start to like uh add that like
should stop early and just preventing
nons was a huge win but then yeah like
we can experiment more on that.
>> All right cool
>> we need a lot of strips too so
>> Oh yeah and you'll be able to run way
more you know we can just do a ton of
them on the big boxes. We might even buy
some more boxes.
>> Cool. Business is spiring.
>> Well, uh, they have a 8x5090 box now.
I'm going to wait until I know like I
want to go benchmark Puffer 4 when it's
done on all of the different like GPUs
out there to see how much faster it is
and 5090s or H00s or whatever. And then
if 5090s are really good, we could just
get an 8X 5090 box for Puffer.
No AMD.
>> God, no. I don't want to deal with that
[ __ ] Unless it works out of the box,
but I doubt it.
>> Uh, well, Tiny Corp will probably make a
good driver out of it.
>> Yeah, but then you have to use Tiny,
which is like
honestly probably better than Torque. I
don't know. I have to go look at some of
their code more. Um, I think that they
kind of did stuff the opposite of the
way that I would want to do it though,
where they did pure Python and then it
like generates C and stuff.
>> Um,
>> I
guess they do it that way directory.
>> Yeah, but they do it because they want
different to support different backends,
but I just having everything in Python
and everything be codegen to me is just
so gross. Like my happy place is just
everything being pure C, everything
being simple, low level, just so nice.
>> Oh, then then how about like Mojo?
>> H that thing is just not ever going to
catch on. And then like they did some
good things, but then they also did some
really stupid things for no reason.
>> And like Mojo, it's also the same thing,
right? Mojo is also not like a
low-level. It's like a how do we do low
level but make it look like Python?
>> Uh it's like a Python super. So
>> the thing is like
>> C is just good. Like just C is good.
>> It's like you don't need to make C look
like Python.
>> You end up writing literally the same
amount of code.
>> Like I go port stuff from Python to C or
like all the time and I end up with the
exact same amount of code in C. But
mine's 100x faster.
>> Yeah, that's a I start to feel that uh
with the like a environment works. So
yeah, everything is faster. That's cool.
What's SK learn here for?
How does regression?
>> Ah, that's such a heavy ass thing to
need. Damn it. It's not in I guess pie
torch.
>> Oh, but it already has like numpy and
sci. So on top of that is like
>> I don't know why we have scypie
honestly.
>> I think there's like one operation. I'd
like to get rid of both of them if we
can. Like logistic regression is uh is
like four lines in torch, isn't it?
Literally just like a one neuron with a
sigmoid output.
>> I think G pipe torch needs side pine.
>> Stupid heavy libraries. Okay. I mean
this PR looks good though.
Merge it.
>> Have a look at the like the figures.
Yeah, I put it.
>> Oh,
>> yeah. So,
>> I like this
>> echo Tetris.
And then the the one is the like I'm
looking for the the stable hyperparams
that doesn't break wrong runs.
fuel. Thank you. And then we have the
giant SPR.
Not giant.
This is really really good policy
though. One hot encoding for empty
spaces
and each cell/tile.
>> Yeah.
It works for now.
>> Huristic rewards for tal states.
Maintaining the snake pattern. Oh,
that's really heristic. Okay.
>> Yeah, that's heristic. But like I try to
not uh go too overboard with that. So,
so the character really like doing a lot
of heavy lifting for sure. Yeah. Just
that yours
can
>> thousands.
Many blessings from 67.
Halloween costume was about 60.
Excellent.
>> Okay. So, this has the same thing in it,
but that's fine.
>> Yeah. like two should be the same like
commit.
like that's how I use sweep. I I take
the values from sweep as exod distance
and kind of like looking at like seeing
it as whether it is like robust.
So like a very small changes in
hyperparameter if like crashes run or
change the result too much then we are
in a very unstable region but like uh if
I can just like round it and it works
then like yeah we are in good place so
>> yeah we should probably do something for
this formally actually it's one of the
things I was thinking about with
constellation is like the sphere of uh
stable hypers there's actually so one of
the things constellation does is it'll
go find you uh like all the M's that
have a similar set of hyperparameters
that also do well.
Uh yeah, and then that's uh what
basically the Gaussian process
regression is doing. It's it's giving
you that like that Gaussian fit for each
hyperparameter. So
yeah, that's how I use three and down
sample. So
wrote many days of sleep over that.
So
>> over this
>> of course G2048.
Yeah.
Counting.
>> Yeah. Turning more for the curriculum
and just
evaluation.
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
You did it the correct way, though.
I found a I found a script like this
from NYU, except that they were trying
to do their evaluations with the C
model.
>> What C model?
>> Yeah, they were doing their evaluations.
They were like trying to do something
like this for eval time but instead of
using torch they were trying to load
like the really really slow like one
>> C model.
>> Yeah like I started with that but then
>> yeah and switch to that. Yeah, it
doesn't matter here
>> because like G20 48 is like so long.
>> It's like 30 30k 40k takes each run just
it takes like uh like 5 minutes in C. So
>> yeah,
>> you did add
you did add a network. Wait, what?
There's no puffer included.
Well, copper net provide good components
now.
I build on top of that.
>> Yeah, but doesn't Oh, I see. Cuz that
file's going to Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Fine.
Fancy ass environment. But this is
Oh.
Oh, no. This is crazy network.
Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello.
Okay, I see your network.
I have a theory, Kang.
So, I know you got that type of
architecture from the uh the robotics
networks.
>> Mhm. I have this theory that the
robotics net people are just kind of
dumb.
>> I saw Yeah. Yeah.
>> Show you show you the mining grew net in
a second because I think it's a better
architecture and I'm curious to see how
it does on 2048 versus baselines.
>> Yeah, definitely. Yeah. So like that is
like such a good problem now that we can
test out the like model capabilities and
model capabilities like barely do matter
because
>> here with hidden 256 128 they cannot
like do this. So
>> I those are the same
>> same thing, right? It's just like
>> yeah, I trying to
>> probably going to or whatever, but we'll
see.
>> Yeah, this is the same the same pool. So
I will merge this.
>> We're going to want
>> And you haven't seen the you haven't
seen the
>> Oh, the end game yet.
This is what happens when I know I need
a break, but I have too much work to
take a break.
>> I was actually I was looking forward to
getting some rest this weekend and then
I got like a super rushed contract job.
So, it's like all right, you know, for
rush pricing, we'll work.
>> Yeah.
Where did the thing go?
Scroll by it.
>> No. Uh, it will come later. Yeah, there.
>> Okay.
big PR
>> You know what I'm going to be curious
on, Kung?
Mhm.
>> I'm going to wonder if
so when we do puffer four and puffer
five, right? I'm going to wonder if we
can get this result with less
scaffolding.
>> That would be good. Yeah. Uh so
that Yeah. So here now it relies on
curriculum a lot.
>> Mhm. But then at the same time like uh
it like for each m to get higher tiles
you just need more ticks like 30k 40k
like the agent has to go through that to
even see the high tile.
>> So the cool thing is it's that's not
going to be true in puffer 5.
>> Why?
>> Because we're going to do state sets
state load like state save state load.
just going to be able to practice like
just the portions of the end that it
needs.
>> Isn't that cool?
>> Uh that would be cool. Yeah, that that
will probably like uh
>> the curriculum
>> that will do it.
>> That's like the only thing you can do.
There's no there's no clever math you
can do
>> that would replace that
>> because otherwise you're correct. You're
like well it has to go through the whole
thing just to see
>> to see like the highle play once. The
only way around that.
>> Yeah. Okay. Then that'll be cool. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Right. Cool stuff coming.
>> That's basically like a scaffolding
scaffolding and like a dynamic.
>> So
that hard hand coding you see there.
>> Yeah. So you're basically you're doing
something like that manually.
But I think this will be a really good
baseline because trying to beat this
without all this like really well done
scaffolding stuff is going to be a hard
challenge.
So like you were talking about Pokemon
as that like ultimate challenge and I
agree with that but like this like G2048
as much simpified
uh much simple than Pokemon but it's
still long horizon like it's like 40 50
>> course it's just it's very hard to like
intuit it right because you don't
actually know over what subsequence you
need to plan for instance whereas
Pokemon, there's like this really
obvious visual exploration challenge
where what you're seeing is not really
similar. It's like
>> they're like key differentiations,
right? So like stuff like this and stuff
like Go, it has that type of a problem
where it's a really hard learning task
and we know that empirically, but we
can't really understand why to the same
degree that we can intuit it like
Pokemon or Net Hack or like a full game.
>> This is why games are good, right? It's
like because they're interpretable.
But the the 2048 is a pretty sweet spot
that yes, it's hard complex, but it's
very easy to interpret and see and fast.
So,
>> oh yeah, like a very good test bed.
>> This is a very good test bed. I agree.
make a pattern.
Yes, this is all reward hacky,
but that's fine.
>> Well, what? Like, it's far more than
Pokemon.
>> Oh, it's obviously going to be less
reward hacking than Pokemon, but then
how much reward hacking do you think
Pokemon would have taken if Pokemon had
run at millions of steps per second?
>> That's fair. Yes.
>> Oh, also I got to answer this for Jess.
So how do you calculate end compreh
complexity? So you can see this is low
entropy and this is low complexity and
this is medium entropy and high
complexity and this is high entropy and
low complexity. So this is the one that
you actually want. So if we could just
measure this thing with colograph
complexity, we'd be able to apply this
to every environment.
Except this whole thing is completely
stupid because you can't actually
compute this metric and it just ends up
being a massive nerd snipe. And
literally there's no better way to
measure end complexity than subjective
opinion of interpretable tasks.
End rant.
>> this probably took quite a while. It's
all done. We can get this PR in and we
can start running experiments on this.
And I got to show you one thing as well.
>> Yeah,
>> I need this in four. So, I'm going to
have to merge this back to four. And
then, let me show you one thing.
This is the new
Okay. So, this is a minigrew layer.
>> Mhm.
>> So, this whole bit, this is the
replacement for an LSTM.
>> You can imagine that this this whole
thing just here says LSTM cell.
>> Mhm.
>> Here's the key.
>> Okay. So
>> the skip connect and a norm.
>> H ah
>> and it seems like this lets us stack
this architecture pretty deep.
>> Uh that like regular connection.
>> Mhm. So I'm thinking that instead of
stacking um
instead of having to stack uh a
bajillion like linear layers and gelloos
>> Mhm.
>> I'm thinking this is going to be way
better.
So like uh so like transformer is
basically doing that right? Um
>> so transformer is doing this quadratic
scan thing uh unless you have a linear
variant. So this is kind of in between
because this is a recurrent mode.
It's a state space model. So this is a
recurrent mode. You see how it takes a
hidden as an input
>> and then it gives you an output. So it
like from t minus one it gives you t
It just turns out that the math the
formulation of this specific recurrent
cell like I could write a for loop over
this for training mode. I could write a
for loop over t but it turns out that
mathematically you can do this operation
instead and then this gives you the
identical output and you can do this in
parallel.
>> Oh like uh was the parallel part in the
paper too? Uh yeah so the parallel parts
in the paper it's not fully parallel. So
the thing that makes it good is that um
it's this chunk here. So this is the
only matrix multiply here right and this
is done over time steps. So it's like an
encoding op basically. And then the the
there is still a portion that depends on
time implicitly inside of this [ __ ] sum
and log [ __ ] sum x but you don't actually
have to do like matrix ops over time. So
this is a very small and fast operation
compared to a matrix multiply. You get
to batch all your matrix multiplies into
one operation and then only the gate has
any recurrence in it which is kind of
cool.
So here it uh basically
like we can have the very like a
lightweight encoder and then like
>> exactly
>> and LS LSTM can be replaced with like a
multi-layer main group and it will
figure out like so like what we are
currently doing in transformers right
>> uh yeah except this is way faster than
any transformer.
>> That's so cool.
>> Yeah,
>> people are looking forward to it. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Now, the the thing that sucks
about this is that for small models in
Python, this is actually slower than
Torch's really optimized LSTM kernel
until I write my own kernels. And then
when I do my own kernels, it's faster.
>> Yeah, should be.
>> No, it is. And when you scale this, it's
actually automatically faster than
torch.
>> So basically
whole new architecture.
>> Yeah. Like
>> yeah, that like in like we have not seen
in an RL. So
>> really has not been used in RL. Yeah.
Like and it's kind of funny because I
was kind of like getting concerned that
this wasn't going to work until I added
the uh the RMS norm
>> and the skip connect.
and now it works very well. So like
basically there's a ton of architecture
work that we can do and as long as we
have the Python backend as an option
pretty much what you'll be able to do is
you'll be able to fiddle with the Python
architecture like run a bunch of
experiments and decide like
>> hey you know I think that this is a good
change why don't we port this into the
C++ so we can have the super fast
version
>> and like yeah we can just do that.
That's exciting. That's super exciting.
>> And actually, porting to C++ is not even
hard. Uh, it's only the kernel ports
that are hard.
>> Colonel ports are hard because what I
want to have happen is basically,
so the reason that this can be slow is
that every single one of these
operations is a new kernel.
>> And it's like they're just like
sequential launches. Like all these
operations are just new kernels and then
all these operations. I can do this
whole thing in one kernel
all fused be cool.
>> Yeah, that would be cool.
>> There you go.
>> So like like the the authors who like
made minkru like in what context they've
been using it?
Well, they just evaluated on a few
synthetic tasks and stuff and then they
got their paper rejected because
reviewers were morons.
>> Yeah, I Yeah, I saw that. Like stupid.
>> If this actually works and we end up
keeping this for Puffer 4, I'm going to
write a thread on like how stupid this
like open review is.
Let me let me
>> It was completely inappropriate, too,
because it was like third party authors
of related work like coming into the
open review to like bash on this paper
during the review process.
>> Oh [ __ ]
>> It was like completely stupid.
>> And they're like, "Oh, well, we already
explored this in our paper, yada yada."
It's like, your paper doesn't have code
and your paper is [ __ ] It's impossible
to tell what the [ __ ] you're doing.
What did you have before Mingru? Just an
LSTM, man. Optimized LSTM.
>> So yeah, like with 2048 like I I thought
that like 64 PPT was like pretty small,
but then like if we can go scale that
well
>> then. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Like that will totally crush this.
>> Yeah. So because Minigru scales with
time sequence way better than LSTM does.
>> Yep. Yep. That's very exciting.
>> That that that's probably new game for
sure.
>> Yeah.
>> So like now you need 2048.
>> Yeah. So what I want to do right is I
want to run
So, I want to run uh your encoder
with this as the backbone versus LSTM,
and I want to see if that works. And
then I want to see if what happens if we
take out some of those gussets.
>> Yep, that's cool. Looking forward to it.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we will do that after. Um the only
thing I have to do at the moment is I
got to finish Muan today and then I want
to like merge this into 40. So we can do
that in 40.
>> So like the next step for 2048 is so so
right now I think it's already za like
having 65k tile like 40 15%.
>> But then like people never have seem to
reach the next level which is 132k tile.
That's that's like never like done
before.
>> And if Mingu can like do that then Yeah,
that's
>> Well, what do your learning curves look
like?
>> Oh, I I linked to one DB.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Link me one. I want to see if this
is like Can we just
>> There over there. Yeah. Over in the PR.
>> Oh, isn't Oh, duh.
>> Yeah.
Transparency.
So there like I I told you about the
>> run this for longer.
>> Uh then like that's why I was looking
for like favor hyper power like
>> Yeah, you can just run this for like a
couple hundred bill and it'll probably
just do it
>> maybe. Like yeah, but
I already lost a lot of sleep over that.
Yeah, we'll get some rest first.
>> I'm recovering. Yeah,
>> some rest first
>> and catch up with my actual work. Like
I'm sorry.
>> Yeah, you should do that.
>> You're doing robotics.
>> This was fun.
>> Yeah, this was fun. What?
>> But yeah, like uh
yes, to to get that next level like
132k. Yes, we need longer training like
that like stable longer training and
yeah better architecture helps but like
really like like having to get you have
to roll out for like a 50k steps and
like multiply by like number of amps.
>> Yeah,
>> you just need more steps.
>> Yeah.
>> So I think that that would be a great
like uh like target for 4.0 No, like
like 132k tile.
>> We can try it. Um the curriculum
implicit like the state set things is
not going into four though. That's going
to be puffer five.
>> No no no no without without like a state
set. It's just uh like a longer longer
faster training with like mean grow
reaching 132k tile and with like
consumer hardware.
>> Yeah. like that without search like all
previous like solutions were using
search
>> so they were making one terabyte of
>> oh my god
>> lookup table
>> and like and then they were reaching six
like 6% 65k but now we have like a 14
megabyte weights
>> that's awesome
>> they can like crush that
>> could write an article on this man
>> yeah yeah
like work first
Don't get me fired.
>> But but like 132k uh tile with very
small network that runs in hours and
yeah like that's
like yeah that will be golden
for sure.
>> This is going to be very cool. I mean
this is already very cool.
>> Um I mean you have this result already.
Like this is technically really like a
puffer three result in the sense that
you're really using puffer 3. So like we
can even then see how much better we can
do with the puffer 4 net and
>> yeah I totally agree this is as far as
puffer 3 can like push
>> and then like the next level puffer will
have to go beyond that which probably
will with the speed and like better
architecture. So
>> 2048 was like pretty awesome test bet
for like many reasons. So
>> yeah, this is crazy that you have like a
curve that goes like the curve keeps
going up for
>> billions with a problem like this
>> and then then you see that the clear aha
moment there like yeah
>> like that's that's where the scaffolding
curriculum and then the end game like uh
the practice like meet like when you
look at the curriculum the training
curve I go back
>> kind of funny that this is
implies 24 to80 is harder than driving.
>> So, so here like the max tile has been
the capp at 32k, right?
>> The agent have not cracked it crack the
end game yet. So, so it was like keep
bumping to the
>> the very last tiles, but then once the
agent uh start to crack the end game,
then it just goes up, right? Yeah, I've
seen stuff like this happen before as
well. Like this can happen in complex
ends for sure.
>> Mhm.
>> So, so there like showing that was like
pretty like exciting.
>> I lost a few sleeps over that. Yeah.
>> Well, get sleep.
>> I generally suggest get exercise. Work
hard but get get exercise.
>> But that was so exciting. Yeah, very
exciting two weeks for sure.
>> I just
>> like when when that scaffolding and end
game like matches like it clicked and
then they explode.
>> I've seen this type of thing in neural
MMO before uh as well
>> and like
yeah, I think it's pretty cool to see
this out of like 2048.
>> You'll probably see it again at 131k.
Uh yeah, probably. Yeah, definitely.
Like when when it starts to go over that
like next 65k barrier,
>> yeah,
>> you actually should see
>> you should technically see multiple of
them like multiple spikes over here, but
it's like it's probably it's just the
optimizer is so good that it just
smooths this out. So actually what you'd
expect is with a better learning
algorithm, um you wouldn't see this
spike. It would just be smooth. And then
the spike is only occur when it's like
really at the edge of what the learning
algo can do.
>> Yeah. So I think that is like little
happening around like a 10k which is
like a 16k tile
>> like here, right?
>> It's kind of like sumoed out, right? So
yeah.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, that makes sense. And then this
whole front bit is smooth. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Whole front bit is like already
solved.
That's that became so trivial. So like
shooting for 32k and then
>> and that's already like way above
majority of humans.
>> Yeah.
>> Immediately.
>> Just like try to watch it play for once
like Yeah.
>> Oh, we can get it on the website.
>> Yeah. Like Patric and G24. Super fun to
watch.
>> Okay. Yeah. the it's I I make I tweaked
the games so that it it's visually
pleasing to watch like I
>> Yeah, pet was so boring so I made it
harder. So
>> I think that what I should do at some
point is I should just have like a one
screen dashboard with ocean where you
can just click like the dashboard and
just have like all our coolest M's on
one screen in real time.
>> That'd be super fun. I I
few few of them I mean
>> I mean neural MMO is cool. Impulse Wars
if we had a good policy would be cool.
Driving is cool. Um couple the arcade
ones like if you just render them small
are cool. Tetris 2048.
Yeah, like I suggest to update the
website ASAP like that will be and that
people watch like 248
through your like act. So
>> people like rarely like have seen that
like 65k tile because it takes hours to
get there.
>> Yeah.
in YouTube when like you watch human
play or the the
>> I mean I could just 10x the speed.
>> So So it's like 30 hertz now and then
Yeah. No, if you do 60 hertz. Yeah,
maybe.
Like, is it too still inefficient? Is it
still too inefficient? Yes, dude.
Obviously, it is.
Okay.
Like
Yeah, that Tetris is a previous version
and it will die on 10k. So,
>> yeah, this one.
>> Yeah,
>> it's already I think this one's probably
better than I am already.
>> At least with these controls. Maybe with
cleaner controls, I could do about this
well with a little practice.
It's pretty good.
>> Oh, wait. Is it the new Tetris or No?
>> No, this is the old one.
>> Why there? Uh, yeah. Yeah, I I thought
the pre the below lines were garbage,
but then
>> No, it's just like done stupid.
>> Okay.
>> All right, cool.
>> Yeah, I'll play both games. That will
make me happy.
>> Okay, cool. I'm going to try to get them
ported over uh get everything to 40. I'm
going to run some baselines and we'll
get this onto the website. It'll be fun.
Yep.
>> You sure you want 2048 on the website
before you have time to write a post?
Like, you should write a post on that,
man, if you have soda on it.
>> Uh,
oh, no.
Whatever.
>> All right. Okay.
>> Yeah. Just like mention me in the the PR
and then that will do.
>> We'll do.
>> Okay.
I'm going to go see if I can get torch
to behave.
Cool. So, yeah. So, basically this is
where like popper 3 took us and then
yeah, go popper 4.
>> Well, you can you still can run this
technically. You could just 6GPU this
for like 200 billion steps, right?
>> Nah. Like that.
>> Nah. Let me catch up on work first.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> All right. All right. Go get some work
done and we'll catch up in a bit.
>> All right. Cool.
>> Thanks, Kim.
>> Bye.
>> That was fun.
Kim does good stuff.
Young says pong solves in 5 seconds on a
fuel.
That's a fast sweep.
Oh, I had to read and sign one document,
guys. One second.
Just reading this document real quick.
One second.
One last thing and I will be on this. I
just have to make sure
I got to make sure one thing and then I
will be back on this. Hang on.
I just needed to request I needed to
read a contract and to do things. You
read it chat at all? Yes, Miles, I do. I
had to do uh I had to read a document
off on my other monitor for a second.
What? Why use a recurrent model for
marone marovian m like g2048?
Um it's just standard meister. Like
technically it's nice for your models to
be able to remember stuff and like
alternatively you'd have to come up with
a different architecture stack for
recurrent and non-recurrent and we can
just make this model fast anyways. So
there's no point in not doing it. And
often times M's that you think are
marobbian actually aren't. In this case,
it definitely actually is, but you could
very easily mess it up as well.
Okay.
Humans are potentially
able to extend lifespan up to hundreds
or thousands of years. Do you think
there'll be some issue regarding memory?
Not appropriately or efficiently
managing our memory.
We don't lose the ability to write stuff
down, right?
I mean, yeah, we rediscover history
every generation. Like,
if anything, this makes that less of a
problem. No.
And I suspect we won't just extend life
to hundreds or thousands of years. I
think we'll just like stop aging
entirely.
That would seem more likely to me.
better damn well be in our lifetimes.
Man,
spend so much damn time on science. I'd
like to have uh some time to enjoy as
well. Thank you very much. Not that I
don't enjoy this, but it's a lot of
work.
I don't know. I think RL will have a
part to play in it in the sense of like
simulation is one of the best tools we
have for discovery and RL is going to
make simulation a way better tool.
How do I edit one header file and it has
to rebuild 102 files at like two files
per second?
That's disgusting.
Why is it not showing your messages on
my chat broke or something? Do you feel
responsibility to do it?
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's like
it's more I just get I'm so annoyed like
at the state of tech and like
I mean in a remotely optimal world, you
basically wouldn't be able to do
anything as an individual that's
valuable that like a company with
billions of dollars hasn't already done.
But like the fact that I can just sit
here and solve outstanding questions
that have just gone unsolved that are
valuable and important for a decade is
nuts. So, as long as this is the state
of the world, like, yeah, I'm going to
do my damnest to pick [ __ ]
I mean, it's truly insane. Like what
I've discovered in the last couple of
years, I've just blown past everything
like this whole state of RL as it was
when I finished my PhD. I've blown by by
a factor of like a 100 to a thousand in
two years, less than two years.
And like in another two years, we're
going to have this entire field like
stable, solid, mature, working out of
the box.
It's pretty clear all laid out. It's
just a lot of work.
That's kind of the idea of this stream,
right? Is it's like watch crazy research
progress happen live.
Do you work with others?
Well, yeah, I run. So, Puffer is a big
open source project. It's the fastest
growing one in the space.
Like,
this is when I started working on it
full-time right here.
and we've got like 200 people in the
Discord. We've got dozens of
environments, most of which are by
contributors.
We now have um you know, we have company
contracts as well.
RLVR is bad because of LM
they're symbolic.
I just ignore that whole thing because
it's too that like that whole area, it's
too slow to make any progress as an
individual.
Like when I'm doing this stuff, I can
make crazy sci-fi tech out of nothing.
What if I do this?
That should tell me, right, if it's if
it's there or not.
Probably just linking against the wrong
torch.
Well, we can just use games, dude. Just
don't do games on freaking pixels cuz
it's slow as [ __ ]
Oh, is it actually go to
really? It goes to cafe 2.
I see
that I can actually fix.
Unless it's a bot, but this doesn't look
like a bot.
That's funny.
Yeah. No, it's just not like Arc is not
actually AGI at all
under any useful definition.
Oh, Francisco posted the dumbest [ __ ]
earlier today as well.
What is it, friend? Uh,
let's just do this.
this is literally the opposite of how
you do things.
Literally the opposite. This is how you
[ __ ] things up. All
right. Can we do this?
Oh,
And
compile torch with lac.
I got to find more like good well-built
software projects because it kind of
starts to lose the sting when I'm just
like critical of every single piece of
software ever. But it's just truly the
case that there are very very few things
these days that are just truly wellb
built.
Then expand your thought on the post a
bit that you discover things by like
peeling back stupid layers of
abstraction and like wrong mental models
and wrong, you know, rappers that people
have built up more than anything.
Discovery requires clarity. Abstraction
is the opposite of clarity
because like oh in theory they let you
think about things from a high level but
in practice it just gives you like
they're never done correctly. They're
always wrong. Like the way to do them is
to not do them because you never get
them right anyways.
God damn it. Why the [ __ ]
Why did it do this [ __ ]
That's so obnoxious, man. That's like so
so incredibly obnoxious.
Okay. What do I do about this? Um,
test it on CPU maybe.
But that's like
no I need this working on GPU man. Like
[ __ ]
Super obnoxious.
The torch to build.
Cool. I'm use the restroom real quick
and uh hopefully this does a thing. I'll
be right back.
still.
[ __ ]
Fire torch driving me crazy. One hour to
actually write a feature.
Two hours trying to figure out why the
[ __ ] the project doesn't compile.
Lovely.
What am I supposed to do other than sit
here and like wait for ti pietor torch
to finish its [ __ ]
Like I just need this thing to be done
today. That's basically the only thing.
Um,
Oh, lovely. Um, yeah, torch is mid
compilation. That's not going to work.
Fun, fun, fun, fun.
How's everybody doing?
Love waiting for torch to compile.
What machine do you run runs on locally?
I got a desktop right there with a 4090.
Pretty similar to the machines I have
back there.
This is why C++ is evil. For reference,
like what the [ __ ]
We're compiling one file per second.
One file per second.
Ow.
These aren't even real files. These are
autogen files.
Um, let me think in the meantime. So,
the plan here is pretty much just to
test. Let's at least get our params
loaded into this thing, I guess. Um,
yeah.
entropy betas
epsilon
that's all we changed right
yeah learning rate beta epsilon I didn't
mess with momentum
Yeah, I guess it is just this, right?
H
so I it's kind of weird to have same
learning rate like this.
I guess this is what I'm doing now
though. No.
Yeah, this is exactly what I'm doing.
Oh, match RMSW W. Right,
Hopefully, this actually builds with
proper architecture support.
I don't know. Has anybody else ever done
um had to get torch to build correctly?
I had it almost there, but then um
it built with the wrong driver support,
wrong uh GPU support. What is that
technically? Wrong wrong CUDA support,
right? Yeah, wrong CUDA architecture. Uh
if this doesn't work, then what I'm
going to do is I'm just going to hack it
all real quick to run CPU because I'd
like to get this PR in today if I can.
That'd be great.
I should have probably checked that
nobody's been doing this actually.
That would be really stupid, right?
Well, you know what we'll do in the
meantime instead of just like sitting
here not even thinking? Um,
I think what I want to do tomorrow is I
want to figure out how we can have uh
backends for all the C++ M's. And the
one there are two things that are just
awful about this. So, let me talk
through these now. Um, the first thing
is that I you're writing in scene. This
is kind of one of those rare cases where
like you genuinely need to void star a
bunch of stuff because
if it's going to be like vector step or
whatever, vector step is going to have
to be like void star.
Um,
which I guess is not terrible
if I think about it. You know, it's not
terrible to have it that way.
But then the other thing that's just
really gross, I suppose, is how we do
the initializations,
right?
How the heck do we even do that?
Can C read? Well, no. I there's like an
any file library maybe for C, but that's
still super obnoxious.
yeah that's the hardest bit actually
come to think of it right is how on
earth do we pass environment parameters
from Python
everything else is not
I guess honestly our end binding thing
would be the way to go, right?
I'm trying to think how you would do
this and see. So like
you have some parcript for your
Just write a big if statement, wouldn't
you?
Well, no. I can do it, right? I can just
It's going to be slightly annoying, but
all I'd have to do is I'd make like a
create.
Yeah, I'd make like a create function.
is it? No, it's not because what you do
is you'd have
Yeah. You just have each thing it would
just define its own init method
and it would have to have like unpack
from a dictionary type object. That's
fine. That's fine. So like the init
method is just like slightly more
obnoxious, but that's genuinely like
okay
init from args or whatever.
I can figure that out tomorrow for sure.
Multipprocessing or multi-threading.
I was just wondering if there are any
gotchas because I didn't actually know
about the static buffer thing. I never
used that keyword ever.
These have to be bots, right? There
can't be actual three real people who
didn't get the joke, right?
Okay. So, there's some functions that do
this.
Thread safety on uh
on rand
fuel.
custom PRNG.
Cool.
I didn't think of that one, but that
makes sense.
This is kind of insane.
Why do I have to compile all this crap?
Lots of reply guy maximalists.
And I get baited into replying to a
bunch of dumb stuff, but like holy
Yeah. I don't know. It is absolutely the
case that if Google's going to point a
fuzzer at your library and be like, "Ah,
we need this fixed immediately." like
you should at least throw some sort of
sponsorship.
Like in the scheme of things, these open
source libraries are very rarely asking
for very much.
I mean, Puffer is kind of the exception
in that case where it's like I
absolutely go [ __ ] you pay me. Like all
my tools are free, but if you want like
support at a company, then you get a big
contract.
I gotta love how in order to just like
test my basic thing. We have to spend an
hour compiling every possible version of
[ __ ] flash attention.
Patents and stuff. Nope. Patents aren't
particularly useful unless you want to
be a legal company.
It's very simple, right? It's like you
can go try to solve your hard RL problem
on your own and you'll be in a way
better position to do that with Puffer
than otherwise. But I've seen time and
time again, people have large teams and
they mess it up even with all the tools
and even with all the documentation and
stuff that I put out there and even with
like we us literally having brand new
programmers doing it. So we charge in
order to uh to build custom sims and to
make sure things are done right and you
will end up spending a lot less hiring
puffer than you will be doing trying to
uh do it yourself.
Is torch a mess?
Yeah. Yeah, it is, man. Torches. Uh, gh.
I mean, it's really I just don't like
C++ at all to be fair. But like then
also this this compilation shenanigans
is just a nightmare.
Like I shouldn't be spending an hour
waiting for every possible version of
Flash Attention to compile.
Actually, that's a great
I mean, it's literally I'm here for an
hour waiting for [ __ ] flash attention
to compile and I got to hope that the
architecture is right. Otherwise, it's
going to have to do it again. And [ __ ]
if it if it's not good for if this
doesn't have SM89 in it, then I guess
I'm just going to do it on CPU and then
wait for it to get into a nightly build
cuz like what the hell, right?
Like people complain in Puffer Lib that
I have it uh so that it compiles all the
environments every time you compile one
environment, which takes like 20 seconds
or whatever. So like I'm literally I'm
adding an option so that you can just
compile your one environment, right?
Because people didn't want to wait the
20 seconds, which is completely fair.
And then here Torch is like, "Nah, bro.
Give me an hour.
Give me a whole freaking hour to
compile." Look at this. Flash Ford split
HD dim 160 BF-16 SM80
and there's HDMI 192 and there is FP16
HDM 160. Ah yes, everybody's favorite
hidden dim 160.
I literally I'm not even using any form
of attention for [ __ ] sake.
Hopefully. I mean, let's start the PR at
least.
Uh,
let me also go check my email because I
need to see whether I am starting client
work tonight or not.
Oh, perfect. That's one other thing I
can do while I wait for this.
Hang on.
Let me just make sure I have this
invoice correct. I got to send uh send
one thing.
Compiling [ __ ] anyways.
That would be bad. Let's not leave the
other client's freaking name on the
invoice template.
That better not be an error that I see
on the side of my uh my vision there.
Uh, okay. So, this says that we have
torch,
but do we really have torch?
What the hell?
[ __ ]
It's kind of funny to me that there were
like literally three people
Uh what the hell?
Where is
where is error
optimizer?
What did I do?
What I do? What I do? Ah,
Now, are we lucky enough to have it work
with orthogonal
We also need to add the skip connects,
right? So, this actually does do kind of
something.
Needs the skip connects.
So it's going to be after out you just
add
out plus x
and then you do norm
out equals out plus
x
X
Oh, there better be RMS Norman in C++.
Come on.
Does it need a weight?
Wait, does this have any learnable
parameters?
Hey, Jess
suffering.
How does there How is there no RMS norm
in C++? Like come on, man.
Oh, that's so obnoxious.
Well, I have to go dinner to get dinner
soon. So, like
guess we're not going to get RMS Norman
in today.
not discard commits, right?
Hang on.
I just want to make sure I didn't click
the wrong thing.
Is where's the isn't there like this
Marcus draft thing?
Where do we Why does it not have this
button?
Oh, wait. Hang on.
Pull request.
Where's my UI on this thing?
Oh, here it is.
Pull request. Cool.
Okay. And I got to run in a few minutes,
but um
let's see
what I missed.
So we do Python
test Test work.
Okay, this is
failures equals three.
The heck is this?
Test index add correctness.
Nothing.
All right, I gotta go in a second,
folks. Um, I'm going to have some client
work to do in the evening most likely.
So, I'll be back all day tomorrow
streaming. Um, puffer.ai for all the
things. Start puffer on GitHub. It helps
me out a ton. Discord if you want to get
involved with dev. And uh follow on X
for more content.